Add "Serialized transaction format" subsection to "Transaction Format" (#3155)
w3f/polkadot-wiki: docs/build/build-transaction-construction.md

- `dest`: Destination address
- `#[compact] value`: Number of tokens (compact encoding)

**Serialized transaction format**

Before being submitted, transactions are serialized. Serialized transactions are hex encoded SCALE-encoded bytes with the following format:
- Compact encoded number of SCALE-encoded bytes following this.
- 1 bit: it is a 0 if no signature is present, or a 1 if it is.

> - 7 bits: the transaction protocol version.

Reviewer: This is different from the `transaction_version`. It's confusing, but at least note it here.

Author: I though these 7 bits was exactly `transaction_version` as described [here](https://docs.substrate.io/v3/runtime/upgrades/).

What are they then? I will update this accordingly.

Reviewer: Nope, so this is a bit lower level, it's like the version of "what an extrinsic is" _to Substrate_, while `transaction_version` refers to backwards incompatible changes _to a specific runtime,_ namely when you break pallet/call indexing, function signatures (including types), or types in the serialized transaction itself (e.g. `AccountId` or `SignedExtension`s).

`transaction_version` came much later than `extrinsic_version`, and was a bit of a naming collision that most people just didn't notice. Unless there is a major major major change to Substrate, `extrinsic_version` will basically always `= 4`, and a change would mean basically needing to update everything.

You can see a few examples of its use in txwrapper:

- [Decoding extrinsics](https://github.com/paritytech/txwrapper-core/blob/d590b0912ee0bf9f357233024c064138cff36cd2/packages/txwrapper-core/src/core/decode/decodeSigningPayload.ts#L38) (notice `transaction_version` at L54)
- [The definition of a "method"](https://github.com/paritytech/txwrapper-core/blob/3cc7bf3e63f1e88d231454a98307afe4ab798b27/packages/txwrapper-core/src/core/method/defineMethod.ts#L106)
- [Explained a bit in an example](https://github.com/paritytech/txwrapper-core/blob/b3d7fc1ea49244cbda18d08f14a5d2cdd0b2e78c/packages/txwrapper-core/src/core/construct/createSigningPayload.ts#L27)

Author: thanks a lot for the detailed context around this. 

I updated the text to "extrinsic version" and added the point that it should be 4.

Author: I updated the description to "extrinsic version" also based on this PR: https://github.com/paritytech/substrate/commit/6bcc3851909284f934461e4dc45fec72ce1cb525

- If there is a signature:
  - a SCALE encoded `sp_runtime::MultiAddress::Id<AccountId32, u32>` indicating the signer(s) of the transaction.

>   - a SCALE encoded `sp_runtime::MultiSignature::S225519` with the signature.

Reviewer: Polkadot supports sr25519, ed25519, and ecdsa. This is just an example using sr25519 (with a typo :)), so the text should either indicate that or just make the example generic.
```suggestion
  - a SCALE encoded `sp_runtime::MultiSignature::{SigningScheme}` with the signature.
```

Author: good point, updated and added a little clarification.

- `dest`: Destination address
- `#[compact] value`: Number of tokens (compact encoding)

**Serialized transaction format**

Before being submitted, transactions are serialized. Serialized transactions are hex encoded SCALE-encoded bytes. The specific serialization is defined in the runtime and can change if the runtime is upgraded, but in general the serialization format can be described as follows:
- Compact encoded number of SCALE-encoded bytes following this.
- 1 bit: it is a 0 if no signature is present, or a 1 if it is.
- 7 bits: the transaction version.
- If there is a signature:
  - a SCALE encoded `sp_runtime::MultiAddress::Id<AccountId32, u32>` indicating the signer(s) of the transaction.
  - a SCALE encoded `sp_runtime::MultiSignature::{SigningScheme}` with the signature\*.

>   - a SCALE encoded `sp_runtime::generic::Era` indicationg for how long this transaction will live in the pool.

Reviewer: Its being kicked from the pool is just a byproduct of it being invalid from the runtime's perspective (the pool won't include transactions that will _obviously_ fail, e.g. nonce too low, too old, etc.)
```suggestion
  - a SCALE encoded `sp_runtime::generic::Era` indicating for how long this transaction is valid.
```

Reviewer 2: @IkerAlus

Reviewer: @DannyS03 - he's on vacation, he'll get back to it when he comes back.

Author: good point, changed as suggested

>   - a SCALE encoded `sp_runtime::generic::Era` indicating for how long this transaction is valid.

Reviewer: Can @Imod7 or @tarikgul comment on encoding for mortal vs. immortal transactions?

Reviewer 3: For encoding between an `Immortal` and `Mortal` era, the following `impl` is useful: https://github.com/paritytech/substrate/blob/master/primitives/runtime/src/generic/era.rs#L102

An immortal era will default to the encoded value of `0x00`. It will be just a single byte of `0`.

A mortal era on the other hand will be `Vec[u64, u64]`; Comprising of the Period, and Phase.

  - Compact encoded `u32` with the nonce.
  - Compact encoded `u128` with the tip paid to the block producer.
- The specific transaction parameters or call data, which consists of:
  - 1 byte: the pallet index the transaction is calling into.
  - 1 byte: the function in the pallet the transaction is calling.

>   - variable: the SCALE-encoded parameters required by the function being called.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - variable: the SCALE-encoded parameters required by the function being called.
- 4 bytes: Spec version of the runtime.
- 4 bytes: Transaction version of the runtime.
- 32 bytes: Genesis hash of the chain.
- 32 bytes: Block hash serving as the era reference. If the transaction is immortal, then this would be the genesis hash.
```
